# Named Layouts

Named layouts in IDFS offer a set of predefined, easy-to-remember formats for common date and time representations. These layouts assign memorable names to various standard templates, such as `iso` for the ISO 8601 format. This approach eliminates the need for users to memorize specific format strings for each date and time representation. For instance, instead of having to remember the format string `yyyy-mm-ddThh:ii:ss`, you can simply use the named layout `iso`. This practice enhances code readability, maintainability, and reduces the likelihood of errors.

IDFS provides a broad array of named layouts that are consistent across different programming languages and frameworks. This consistency simplifies the process for developers when transitioning between various environments, making these named layouts a practical and efficient tool. The named layouts in IDFS are as follows:

- iso: ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS) - This is a widely accepted international standard for date and time.
- rfc: RFC 3339 format (YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ) - This is a standard used in many internet protocols.
- sql: SQL format (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS) - This is commonly used in databases.
- http: HTTP header format (Day, DD Mon YYYY HH:MM:SS GMT) - This is used in HTTP headers.
- unix: Unix timestamp format (seconds since Unix epoch) - This is a universal format that represents time as a simple integer.
- js: JavaScript Date object format (milliseconds since Unix epoch) - This is useful in JavaScript programming.
- datetime: DateTime object format (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS) - This is a common format used in many programming languages.
- date: Short date format (MM/DD/YY) - This is a compact format that is easy to read.
- isodate: ISO 8601 date format (YYYY-MM-DD) - This is a standard format for representing dates.
- longdate: Long date format (MMMM DD, YYYY) - This is a more verbose format that is easy to read.
- shorttime: Short time format (HH:MM) - This is a compact format for representing time.
- longtime: Long time format (HH:MM:SS) - This is a more verbose format for representing time.
- time12: 12-hour time format (hh:ii:ss aa) - This is a format that uses the 12-hour clock.
- shrottime12: Short 12-hour time format (hh:ii aa) - This is a compact format that uses the 12-hour clock.

## DateTime

- iso: ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS)
- rfc: RFC 3339 format (YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ)
- sql: SQL format (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS)
- http: HTTP header format (Day, DD Mon YYYY HH:MM:SS GMT)
- unix: Unix timestamp format (seconds since Unix epoch)
- js: JavaScript Date object format (milliseconds since Unix epoch)

## Date

- date: Date object format (YYYY-MM-DD)
- dateo: Date with ordinal format, e.g. 1st January 2020
- datew: Date object format (WWW, YYYY-MM-DD)
- datewl: Date object format (WWWW, YYYY-MM-DD)
-

## Time

- time: Short time object format (HH:MM)
- timel: Time object format (HH:MM:SS) - long time
- time12: 12-hour time object format (hh:ii aa)
- timel12: 12-hour time object format (hh:ii:ss aa) - long 12-hour time

## Other

- yearday: Year and day of the year format (YYYY-DDD)
- month: Month object format (YYYY-MM)
- monthl: Month object format (YYYY-MMMM)

- datetime: DateTime object format (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS)
- datetimez: DateTime object with timezone format (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS TZ)
- month: Month object format (YYYY-MM)

## Other 1

shortdate: Short date format (MM/DD/YY)
longdate: Long date format (MMMM DD, YYYY)
shorttime: Short time format (HH:MM)
longtime: Long time format (HH:MM:SS)
timestamp: Timestamp format (YYYYMMDDHHMMSS)
epoch: Unix timestamp format (seconds since Unix epoch, same as unix but with a more intuitive name)
week: Week of the year format (WW)
quarter: Quarter of the year format (Q)
weekday: Day of the week format (Monday, Tuesday, etc.)
weekdate: ISO 8601 week date format (YYYY-Www-D)
ordinaldate: Ordinal date format (YYYY-DDD, where DDD is the day of the year)
hourminute: Hour and minute format (HH:MM)
minute: Minute of the hour format (MM)
second: Second of the minute format (SS)
millisecond: Millisecond of the second format (SSS)
microsecond: Microsecond of the second format (SSSSSS)
nanosecond: Nanosecond of the second format (SSSSSSSSS)

## Other 2

shortdatetime: Short date and time format (MM/DD/YY HH:MM)
longdatetime: Long date and time format (MMMM DD, YYYY HH:MM:SS)
yearshortdate: Year and short date format (YYYY/MM/DD)
yearmonthday: Year, month and day format (YYYY, MM, DD)
daymonthyear: Day, month and year format (DD/MM/YYYY)
daymonth: Day and month format (DD/MM)
monthyear: Month and year format (MM/YYYY)
yearday: Year and day of the year format (YYYY-DDD)
dayhourminute: Day, hour and minute format (DD HH:MM)
hourminutesecond: Hour, minute and second format (HH:MM:SS)
minutehour: Minute and hour format (MM:HH)
secondminute: Second and minute format (SS:MM)
millisecondsecond: Millisecond and second format (SSS:SS)
microsecondmillisecond: Microsecond and millisecond format (SSSSSS:SSS)
nanosecondmicrosecond: Nanosecond and microsecond format (SSSSSSSSS:SSSSSS)

## Go

In Go, the time package provides a set of predefined layout constants for formatting and parsing time. These are similar to the named layouts you've defined. Here are some examples:

time.ANSIC: ANSIC format (Mon Jan _2 15:04:05 2006)
time.UnixDate: Unix Date format (Mon Jan _2 15:04:05 MST 2006)
time.RubyDate: Ruby Date format (Mon Jan 02 15:04:05 -0700 2006)
time.RFC822: RFC822 format (02 Jan 06 15:04 MST)
time.RFC822Z: RFC822 with numeric zone (02 Jan 06 15:04 -0700)
time.RFC850: RFC850 format (Monday, 02-Jan-06 15:04:05 MST)
time.RFC1123: RFC1123 format (Mon, 02 Jan 2006 15:04:05 MST)
time.RFC1123Z: RFC1123 with numeric zone (Mon, 02 Jan 2006 15:04:05 -0700)
time.RFC3339: RFC3339 format (2006-01-02T15:04:05Z07:00)
time.RFC3339Nano: RFC3339 with nanoseconds (2006-01-02T15:04:05.999999999Z07:00)
time.Kitchen: Kitchen format (3:04PM)
time.Stamp: Stamp format (Jan _2 15:04:05)
time.StampMilli: Stamp with milliseconds (Jan _2 15:04:05.000)
time.StampMicro: Stamp with microseconds (Jan _2 15:04:05.000000)
time.StampNano: Stamp with nanoseconds (Jan _2 15:04:05.000000000)

## Other 3

Absolutely, here are some human-friendly and hackable names for the RFC layouts:

rfcANSIC: ANSIC format (Mon Jan _2 15:04:05 2006)
rfcUnixDate: Unix Date format (Mon Jan _2 15:04:05 MST 2006)
rfcRubyDate: Ruby Date format (Mon Jan 02 15:04:05 -0700 2006)
rfcSimpleDate: RFC822 format (02 Jan 06 15:04 MST)
rfcSimpleDateZone: RFC822 with numeric zone (02 Jan 06 15:04 -0700)
rfcLongDate: RFC850 format (Monday, 02-Jan-06 15:04:05 MST)
rfcFullDate: RFC1123 format (Mon, 02 Jan 2006 15:04:05 MST)
rfcFullDateZone: RFC1123 with numeric zone (Mon, 02 Jan 2006 15:04:05 -0700)
rfcISODate: RFC3339 format (2006-01-02T15:04:05Z07:00)
rfcISONanoDate: RFC3339 with nanoseconds (2006-01-02T15:04:05.999999999Z07:00)
rfcKitchen: Kitchen format (3:04PM)
rfcStamp: Stamp format (Jan _2 15:04:05)
rfcStampMilli: Stamp with milliseconds (Jan _2 15:04:05.000)
rfcStampMicro: Stamp with microseconds (Jan _2 15:04:05.000000)
rfcStampNano: Stamp with nanoseconds (Jan _2 15:04:05.000000000)

These names are more intuitive and easier to remember than the original RFC numbers. They still maintain a reference to the RFC standard, which can be useful for developers who are familiar with these standards.